What's new OpenAPI 2 (#33017)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/release-notes/aspnetcore-9/includes/openAPI_completion.md

### Intellisense completion enhancements for OpenAPI package

> ASP.NET Core's OpenAPI support is now more accessible and user-friendly. The OpenAPI APIs are shipped as an independent package, separate from the shared framework. This meant that developers didn't have the convenience of code-completion features like Intellisense for OpenAPI APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ASP.NET Core's OpenAPI support is now more accessible and user-friendly. The OpenAPI APIs are shipped as an independent package, separate from the shared framework. Until now, this meant that developers didn't have the convenience of code-completion features like Intellisense for OpenAPI APIs.
```

> Recognizing this gap, the ASP.NET Core team has introduced a new completion provider and codefixer in .NET 9 Preview 6. These tools are designed to facilitate the discovery and use of OpenAPI APIs, making it easier for developers to integrate OpenAPI into their projects. The completion provider offers real-time code suggestions, while the codefixer assists in correcting common mistakes and improving API usage. This enhancement is part of our ongoing commitment to improve the developer experience and streamline API-related workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recognizing this gap, we have introduced a new completion provider and code fixer. These tools are designed to facilitate the discovery and use of OpenAPI APIs, making it easier for developers to integrate OpenAPI into their projects. The completion provider offers real-time code suggestions, while the code fixer assists in correcting common mistakes and improving API usage. This enhancement is part of our ongoing commitment to improve the developer experience and streamline API-related workflows.
```

For example, the following API produces the accompanying schema for the `Todo` type.

```csharp
using System.ComponentModel;
using System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations;

var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder();

builder.Services.AddOpenApi();

var app = builder.Build();

if (app.Environment.IsDevelopment())
{
    app.MapOpenApi();
}

app.MapPost("/todos", (Todo todo) => { });

app.Run();

class Todo
{
	public int Id { get; init; }
	public required string Title { get; init; }
	[DefaultValue("A new todo")]
	public required string Description { get; init; }
	[Required]
	public DateTime CreatedOn { get; init; }
}
```

```json
{
	"required": [
	  "title",
	  "description",
	  "createdOn"
	],
	"type": "object",
	"properties": {
	  "id": {
	    "type": "integer",
	    "format": "int32"
	  },
	  "title": {
	    "type": "string"
	  },
	  "description": {
	    "type": "string",
	    "default": "A new todo"
	  },
	  "createdOn": {
	    "type": "string",
	    "format": "date-time"
	  }
	}
}
```

> ### Support for schema transformers on OpenAPI document

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Support for schema transformers on OpenAPI documents
```

> In .NET 9 Preview 6, built-in OpenAPI support ships with support for schema transformers that can be used to modify schemas generated by [System.Text.Json](/dotnet/api/system.text.json) and the OpenAPI implementation. Like document and operation transformers, schema transformers can be registered on the [OpenApiOptions](https://source.dot.net/#Microsoft.AspNetCore.OpenApi/Services/OpenApiOptions.cs,c0a8b420f4ce6918) object. For example, the following code sample demonstrates using a schema transformer to add an example to type's schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Built-in OpenAPI support now ships with support for schema transformers that can be used to modify schemas generated by [System.Text.Json](/dotnet/api/system.text.json) and the OpenAPI implementation. Like document and operation transformers, schema transformers can be registered on the [OpenApiOptions](https://source.dot.net/#Microsoft.AspNetCore.OpenApi/Services/OpenApiOptions.cs,c0a8b420f4ce6918) object. For example, the following code sample demonstrates using a schema transformer to add an example to a type's schema.
```
